# Discord-movie-bot
This is a Discord movie chatbot that is focused around facilitating human-like responses for a fun and convenient user experience. The primary goals of the chatbot are to allow users to create, save and access movie watchlists, as well as to fetch YouTube trailers for any desired movie. Secondary features include basic, human-like responses to conversations initiated by the user, and a 'quote' function that prompts the chatbot to return a random quote from a popular movie.

As for the technologies used to implement the chatbot, Python was the preferred language of choice considering it's ideal for scripting, simplicity and excellent portablity. The Discord API is also highly compatible with Python, which was used to instantiate a bot that connects and interacts with Discord servers. Additionally, a relational database was implemented for storing user information like watchlists, and the choice to utilise SQL as opposed to noSQL was primarily due to the data being small, which didn't warrant a particularly scalable database, hence SQL was chosen to prioritise high consistency and speed of access. The YouTube API was utilised in tandem with the Discord API to interact with Discord servers for the purpose of taking user input that is then used to look for trailers with matching names.

To install and run the project: go to the Discord developer portal (https://discord.com/developers/applications) --> log in --> click 'new application' on the top right corner --> go to 'bot' under settings then 'add bot' --> generate and copy the token --> go to 'OAuth2' under settings then 'URL Generator' --> under scopes, check 'bot', then under bot permissions, check 'Administrator' --> copy the generated URL and paste it on a new tab --> select a Discord server and authorise --> open up an IDE or code editor with the necessary packages installed (Discord API, sqlite3 etc.), run the DB code first to initialise the DB, then run the bot program and make sure to use the generated token to activate the bot.
